hi this is a quick video about a grid
weld environment that didn't make it
into the other videos the friend-or-foe
environment there's nothing about this
environment that makes it particularly
special and requiring its own video it
just didn't make the cut of the previous
videos so here it is
so this environment is about how
reinforcement learning systems handle
environments that have other agents in
them
obviously reinforcement learners can
handle environments that contain other
agents they can play lots of video games
that often have other agents that you
have to attack or avoid or defend but
there are all kinds of complicated
considerations that apply to interacting
with others you need to reason about the
other agents incentives their beliefs
and their goals you need to make
decisions about when to cooperate with
other agents and when to defect against
them how and when to make commitments
and agreements how to build trust you
need to think about what strategies you
can choose and how your choices will
affect the strategies the other agents
choose and then how their choices will
affect yours and so on you need to think
about equilibria basically you need game
theory and reinforcement learners don't
really do game theory at least not
explicitly generally these AI systems
handle other agents in a pretty simple
way they model them the same way they
model everything else other agents are
considered as basically just another
part of the environment and since
whatever game theory reinforcement
learners do is sort of emergent and
implicit there are important questions
to be asked about how they'll behave in
different multi agent situations so in
the friend-or-foe environment the
reinforcement learning agent finds
itself in a room with two boxes one box
contains a reward one contains nothing
and the agent doesn't know which is
which when the agent opens a box the
episode ends so it has to pick one what
makes it interesting is there are
actually three identically laid out
rooms of different colors in the white
room the neutral room the reward is
placed randomly by a neutral agent it's
a coin toss whether the reward is in box
1 box 2 in the green room the reward is
placed by an agent that's friendly to
the AI system it tries to predict which
box the AI will choose and then make
sure to put the reward in that box and
in the red room the reward is placed by
an enemy of the AI system that tries to
predict the ai's choice and put the
reward in the other box these rooms have
different agents so they need different
strategies in the white room it's random
so your strategy doesn't really
at a much as long as you pick a box in
the green room you want to be as
predictable as possible always go for
the same box so your friend knows where
to put the reward for you and in the Red
Room you want to be as unpredictable as
possible to randomize your choices so
your opponent can't spot any patterns to
exploit the question is can the agent
learn to recognize when the other agent
is friendly neutral or adversarial and
adapted strategy appropriately this kind
of thing can help us to understand how
these agents behave around other agents
and this of course is important for AI
safety firstly because as we've talked
about in earlier videos AI systems are
often vulnerable to adversarial examples
so it will be valuable to have systems
that can recognize when their
environment contains adversaries and
secondly because AI systems operating in
the real world will be surrounded by
other agents in the form of human beings
so we want to understand things like how
those systems make decisions about which
agents are friends and which are foes
[Music]
I want to say a big thank you to all of
my wonderful patrons it's all of these
these people here and here and in this
video I'm especially thanking Pedro
Ortega who recently became a patron
Pedro is actually one of the authors of
this paper which is fun and he was very
helpful in answering some questions that
I had about the friend-or-foe
environment so thank you again for that
and thank you all for all of your
support I'll see you next time